one of the toughest parts of a
toastmasters meeting is the table
topics section you have no preparation
at all
you are asked a question on the spot and
all of a sudden
you are expected to speak from one to
two minutes
about something you couldn't have
prepared for hey everyone my name is
wade patterson and i am passionate
about impactful communication i've been
a toastmasters member for about five
years and i've learned a lot
during that time and make sure you
subscribe to my channel because i'm
going to be sharing a ton of videos
about not only toastmasters but also
communications
in general and how you can be a more
effective
communicator and if you like this video
please tap that like button and i'd love
for you to comment below
as well if you have been to toastmasters
before
what is one of the toughest table topics
questions you've ever received
or an interesting table topics
experience and if you've never been to
toastmasters
after watching this video let me know
what you think about this whole table
topics
idea is it something you think you'd be
good at do you think it would be
challenging
let me know in those comments below so
for those of you who don't know what
table
topics is it is the part of a
toastmasters meeting
that is all about impromptu speaking and
impromptu speaking
is important because if you think about
yourself being
at a networking event let's say and
somebody asks you a question
well you want to be able to think
quickly on your feet and give them
a great answer or if you're delivering
an
actual speech for an audience the
questions that come at the end of the
speech are the one thing you can't
prepare for
so table topics allows you to think
quickly
and creatively to come up with answers
on the fly
but it is one of the scariest parts of a
toastmasters meeting and a lot of times
especially new members get very nervous
during table topics and
don't want to be called upon but i'm
here to give you a couple of ideas of
how you can make table topics
a little bit easier so that you don't
have to stress about it next time
a table topic section happens at a
toastmasters meeting
and you are called on to give an answer
so the first tip i have for
taking on a table topics question is
this
know the theme of the meeting and come
prepared so most toastmasters meetings
have a theme that has often determined
the previous meeting
so on the agenda they see who is going
to be the next week's toastmaster
and that upcoming toastmaster will tell
everybody what the theme of that
upcoming meeting will be
depending on what that theme is that
gives you
an opportunity to prepare and think
about what
story might make sense to tell at that
meeting
because no matter what the theme is
often there are things that we can
associate
real life experiences to or perhaps we
have an opinion
on what the theme is regardless
that is helpful information that is
going to come in handy
if you need it during table topics let
me give you an example
if the theme of the meeting was cooking
maybe i could think to myself what is a
cooking disaster or a time i've tried to
cook something
and it went horribly wrong so i could
think up in my head
some sort of concept or some sort of
story that i've personally experienced
and then i could even practice telling
that story a couple times before going
to the toastmasters meeting now a lot of
times during table topics the table
topics master will
ask questions that have to do with the
theme
of that day's meeting so if you've got
in the back of your head a story about a
time you tried to cook something and it
went horribly wrong
that is a good thing that you will
probably be able to transition to
if you get into a little bit of trouble
during the table topic section
so if the table topics master asked me
wait what is your favorite restaurant
and i have my story prepared about the
terrible cooking experience i've had
there may be a way for me to transition
from the table topic masters question
into my own personal story
the table topics master asked me the
question and i say thank you for the
question table topics master fellow
toastmasters
welcome guests my favorite restaurant
is a little restaurant called rods
but it's not so important what my
favorite restaurant
is as to why i enjoy eating out
i enjoy eating out because when i try to
cook
it can end up pretty bad
let me tell you all a story about the
worst cooking situation
i ever had then i could tell my story
and although
that wasn't directly answering the
question and by the way it's best
especially for advanced speakers of
course you want to try to always answer
the question
the best you can but really the goal of
table topics is to just stand
up and speak for the full amount of time
so this might give you a little
tool in your tool belt to help answer
those questions or a little
crutch you can lean on to and creatively
transition
your answer another tip i would give you
about responding to table topics is that
it's all about hitting the green
light so one of the worst things you can
do in a table topics
section of the meeting is stand up
say i don't know what my favorite
restaurant is
i'm not sure sorry and sit down because
the whole goal is you just want to get
up and practice speaking and try to hit
and when we say green light we're
referring to the timer roll the timer
always keeps track
so in table topics you're trying to
speak for one to two minutes
the green light goes on at one minute
that's hitting the green light
the yellow light goes on at 1 30 and the
red light at two minutes to make sure
you don't go
over that amount of time so your goal is
to speak for one
to two minutes and so it is
a better situation to simply stand
up and and acknowledge the fact that
you're having a little trouble thinking
of an answer
but to still transition into something
else or bring up another topic because
the whole goal of toastmasters
is to become more comfortable speaking
in front of a group of people
and so by simply standing up and forcing
yourself even if it's uncomfortable to
keep talking
until you hit that green light you're
going to see
improvement over time and then before
you know it
that green light is going to be gone and
you're going to be worried about just
keeping it within the red light
and keeping that section the right
amount of time
a final tip and this one's a minor one
but it can make a big difference that i
would suggest for table topics
especially if you can't think of
something right away
is to repeat the question as part of
your
response so every second counts when it
comes to table topics because you
really only have about five to ten
seconds to think of an answer but if you
stand up and you begin replying
by repeating the question it gives your
brain a few more
seconds to think of a potential answer
so again using this restaurant example
the table topics master
asked me to talk about my favorite
restaurant
and i say thank you mr table topics
master or madame table topics master
fellow toastmasters welcome guests
what is my favorite restaurant
well i have to say and then i get into
my answer from there
but by repeating that question i bought
myself about
five more seconds and it just seems like
that dramatic opening
and it's helping everyone else in the
meeting to remember what the question
was as well so that's a little tactic
that will buy you a few
extra seconds but my final tip probably
the best tip
of how to take on table topics is to
choose your
destiny what do i mean by that well
there's a little tool in toastmasters
meetings called
the rebuttal so what you can do is if
somebody
gives an answer to a question so if
you're not the first person to answer a
question in table topics
somebody else is asked a question first
but you think wow
that was a good question i have an
answer for that that would have been
easy for me to speak to
and it's a differing opinion than the
person who just answered
one technique you can consider using is
the rebuttal
so you can raise your hand and then when
called on by the table topics master you
can say
if it's all right with you i'd love to
rebut susie's answer
and this is kind of a fun especially if
you're in a toastmasters club that's a
little more laid-back and light-hearted
this is a fun thing sometimes to almost
get that little bit of debate going
within the club
but the advantage to you is you get to
answer
a question that is much more suited to
your skill set
rather than waiting for a question which
you may or may not
have something to answer to so if you
are worried about which question you're
going to get asked but you hear a
question and you know you would have a
great answer for that question
consider the rebuttal response or at the
very least
if you then get asked a different
question you can always
and this isn't the number one priority
you want to try to answer the question
you're given but if you're
stuck remember it's all about getting to
that green light you can say
thank you for the question mr table
topics master i don't know if i have a
great answer for that but i'd like to
answer
somebody else's question and then give a
response to that
again it is more about just getting to
that
green light standing up and talking at
the end of the day
that is the reason that we go to
toastmasters in the first place
well thank you so much for watching this
video if you haven't already subscribed
go ahead and do that
i'm going to be giving a lot more videos
on toastmasters
as well as communication in general if
you liked this content hit that like
button it'll really help me out
and i'd love to hear you comment below
on
what do you think about table topics is
it something that you're comfortable
with
something that you're brand new to let
me know in those comments
i'll catch you next time